Well, thank you for calling me.
Sure.
I appreciate it.
Sorry I couldn't get into Boston today.
Interesting collection of stories for a first collection, I guess, is one way to start.
Fiction, I have to say, fiction writers, I find the most challenging interviews, but also the most difficult, because generally you like these things to speak for themselves, so we have to talk about other things, I guess.
But in any case...
Tell me a little bit about the inspiration for this collection.
I've read everything about your background as a psychotherapist in Connecticut, and I guess everybody who talks to you wants to reach and find the connection between the two.
Right, and I keep saying no.
Although I can't see, I guess, on a superficial level that your interest in the...
And the subject certainly energizes the fiction, I guess.
Well, my interest in people.
And people.
But I was interested in people before I became a therapist.
And I think even if I was still a waitress, I'd be interested in people.
But we do probe relationships and things here in the... Absolutely.
But again, I just think it's... I became a therapist because I really find people very interesting.
including their relationships and how they get to different points in their lives that's not something that grew out of being a therapist it's just that i hear a lot more about it than i might have if i wasn't a therapist but you know the fact is if you're willing to listen your friends and your family complete strangers will tell you all sorts of things about themselves and their lives and by having such a good ear
But I guess what I'm, certainly nothing that you hear in your office is, though many of the things must be wonderful in terms of.
It's very tempting, but it's really not allowed.
And I take that pretty seriously.
I'm sure.
I did an interview a couple months ago with Ethan Kanin, of course, who's a great young man and a practicing physician, and he said, really, you know, the two don't come together at all as far as he's concerned.
Although, he said...
You really do hear some extraordinary things from people, especially when they're towards the end of their lives, too.
Yeah, he said some amazing things if you just listen.
I guess breaking into to become a writer, I would say one of the most daunting tasks would be the short story, certainly in terms of the commercial aspects of it.
Fortunately, I hadn't given any thought to those things when I was writing.
Really?
No, I mean, I don't live in, like, a writer world, and I didn't have any friends who were writers, and
You know, I was never sort of sitting around over cappuccinos saying, well, which would be the most commercially viable form?
You know, I was just sort of sitting at the kitchen table writing.
You could have picked poetry.
That would have really been the toughest one.
Right, if I really wanted to sink myself.
Yeah.
My poetry is so bad that it seems unlikely that it would ever...
see the light of day and that that will be a good thing now you have been writing for publication for some time i know six is really that's not that's not so long and actually i thought it might have been longer than that when you started did did you think that this was a was this something more that you did to occupy yourself or did you actually actually no i didn't actually find myself with a lot of time on my hands i had a
Full-time job and two small children.
No, I just wanted to try to tell the stories as they were sort of showing up inside my head.
I didn't actually even think of it as writing for a while.
How were you writing these?
Longhand word processor?
Longhand for a while, and then my mother very nicely bought me a little computer for a birthday present, and that was great.
And although I'm sort of a computer moron, I was able to sort of master the word processing act, and that's been terrific.
Do you write on that now?
Yeah.
Primary?
I mean, do you?
I do both.
I write longhand, and I write on the word processor.
It's a remarkable instrument for revision, isn't it?
Well, it encourages, I mean, I find that, although some people feel that it encourages them to be long-winded, I don't find that.
I do find that it encourages me.
to keep changing and making it better.
I did an interview with Robert, I've done just quite a few with Robert B. Parker, and I remember the first couple times, and he had this old stand-up manual typewriter there, you know, and he said, I wouldn't use anything else.
And this last book, which I thought was his best, and I went to do an interview, and here's this state-of-the-art computer over there.
I guess he got over there.
And I said, what happened?
He said, the thing busted and I couldn't find anybody who could fix it.
Of course, manual typewriters, you know, are extinct species.
And so he said he had to get the computer.
But I found, I said, isn't that amazing?
Because I actually found a more polished quality to, I didn't quite say it to him that bluntly, but I did.
That was nice.
But I'm sure it's true.
Well, you know, one is encouraged to polish.
Yeah, and plus there's an ease.
I know when you type something nice and clean, you're really reluctant to throw that piece of paper away and type the whole thing over for one word.
Tell me, I mean, the title is a general title.
There really isn't a title story, per se.
No, there's not.
That's unusual, isn't it?
Well, I mean, I think we had thought for a long time, you know, love is not a pie and other stories and
Then for a while, the title of the collection was Trespasses.
But the guy who was my editor at the time felt, right before the book went to print, he said, oh, I think that's just a little cold.
He said, it just doesn't convey everything.
And so he said, let's find something.
And so the highly scientific approach of publishing companies is your editor runs up and down the halls asking everybody what they think.
And after sort of going through all the titles that sound like bad perfume, you know, obsession, compulsion, blah, blah, blah, and all the ones that sound like 1940s nightclub songs, I said, well, you know, how about come to me?
Because, you know, when people are drawn to the object of their love or their desire, they don't just want to
be in the object's presence they also want to feel that the object is also calling to them beckoning to them what voice do you see uttering those words or do you oh i think it's the voice in the head of lots of the characters it's the voice that they want to hear
the people that they love or are drawn to saying to them and it's words that they may never hear that's what they want to hear and of course it suggests uh it suggests narration doesn't it in every case that there will be a story told yes yeah i think uh and and these voices uh you really i have to say first time out um
you really have a very sure sense of narrative voice here, and they really are distinctively different characters.
Is this something that just came in the process of creating these stories?
Did you see these characters and the voices just kind of emerge?
The stories are very much character-driven, and I think the people were so clear to me.
I could sort of hear their voices, and I think that's one of the reasons that a lot of times I don't use
as much, you know, he said, she said, because I really, in my head, I could hear them so clearly that it seemed, you know, redundant.
You know, I didn't need to say who it was who was speaking because I could tell who was speaking.
I think for the most part that's true for the reader, although perhaps not always.
Now, I think it's five stories in the middle are quite connected.
Do you see all of these connected in a larger sense?
I mean, even though they aren't in a literal sense.
Well, maybe because they're all about people, but as I say, I don't know sort of what else one would write about.
I don't, you know, there's, you know, between the man who is married in Hyacinth and, you know,
you know, the music critic who loses her husband in sleepwalking.
I don't think these people have a relationship between each other or necessarily a great deal in common, but there is certainly, I think, the issues around loneliness and the wish to be known and the wish to be loved, and those things are things that a lot of the characters have in common.
Have you thought about writing a novel?
I'm actually about halfway through a novel.
Oh, really?
So, with any luck, I will get through the other half and hope I'll be finished with it by the winter.
Oh, that's nice.
Is it under contract with HarperCollins?
Well, no, they sort of get first look, and so they will, in fact, get first look in the very near future.
Uh-huh.
and then we'll see what happens with it.
So the book really is not, you don't have a publisher for it just now?
No.
That's the best way, I think.
Yeah, well, it's just sort of, you know, it's my baby now, and I think I'll probably find a home for it before it's done, partially.
You know, because I think that will work out okay, but also I don't feel like I have to make it some way or another for anybody else.
You know, it'll be the book that I write, and it'll be good or it'll be bad, and some people will like it and some people won't, and that'll be that.
Your writing is certainly quite taught here, and I imagine the nature of the form of the story drives that.
Do you find that in working on a novel now that you have a little more freedom to develop and to kind of go out?
Yeah, I am, and I find that I'm sort of trying very hard to sort of make the most of the freedom to expand on stuff, but I keep going back, and
striking out phrases because it's too much and it's too wordy.
So I want to sort of have the development, you know, that you get in a novel, kind of the room.
But I don't want it to be any more verbose in the short stories.
Like the stories, is the novel character-driven?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, it's really true.
It's the only thing I really care about.
So...
You know, it's just people.
Actually, one of the protagonists is a character from the short stories.
There's a little girl in a story called Light Breaks Where No Sunshine, a little girl and her friend, Mr. Klein, the furrier.
And although her name changes in the novel, it's really the same girl, and we follow her sort of growing up, and then there are sort of two other main characters, and their lives are intertwined, and then there's sort of a major disruption.
And then their lives resume again about 15 years later.
Do you strive for some kind of a catharsis in these stories in your writing?
For me or for the character?
Well, for the character, for you, for whatever, for the reader as well.
I think I tend to think of it more, you know, sort of if I have a hope, it's sort of a hope of a certain kind of illumination or of a door opening rather than catharsis.
Because, as you say, the stories are character-driven, and yet the stories themselves are stories.
I hate to sound silly here, but you know what I'm saying.
Yes, I like stories.
I like beginnings, middles, and ends.
And even the title will come to me.
We're going to sit down and we're going to sit around the campfire and talk.
Right.
Again, in terms of relationships, you have a very interesting menage a trois.
You have jealousy with an older man and a younger... I hate to talk again about the stories themselves, but nevertheless, you certainly have come up with some, I wouldn't necessarily say bizarre, but some certainly interesting relationships here that... They're not apparently conventional, but I...
That's the word.
They're not, you know, so uncommon either.
And certainly the feelings are so uncommon.
Do you labor over these stories or do they?
Yes.
Really?
Yeah, I'm a great rewriter.
Again, you say you started these about five or six years ago.
How did that?
I'm just wondering what the spark was that got it going.
I don't really know.
I mean, I really feel like they sort of started showing up.
And I sort of made a decision actually not to become a psychoanalyst, which is sort of what I have been about to do.
And somehow into that space or in that decision,
the story started appearing and I thought, oh well, I guess I'll do this for a while.
And then I thought, oh well, I guess this is what they call writing.
I have to have very impressed.
And I really am pleased to see so many good collections of stories.
Yeah, it is nice.
Maybe it's just coincidental, but I mean, I've agreed to talk to at least half a dozen story writers in the last...
couple months you know it's just uh grace paley is going to be in boston in two weeks and i'm having wonderful and i really i feel like i've been training you know for the olympics or something getting getting ready for this one and uh gee i did a steve dixon uh um last week and of course i gotta find
I have to get all these things published now, too, in the news book.
I'm a great admirer of Grace Paley's works.
She's wonderful.
Actually, I've collected her for a number of years.
Yeah.
It's not always an easy task.
Yeah, I've got all her books, as a matter of fact, so I'm...
Listen, I won't take up too much of your time.
I really appreciate your calling.
Oh, I'm delighted that I could call, and thanks.
Thanks.
And I do write for a number of papers now, I'm pleased to say.
You live where down in... I'm in Connecticut.
In Connecticut.
One paper in Manchester just started taking my call a couple weeks ago.
Uh-huh.
Actually, I've been talking to a paper in Middletown.
Are you near Middletown?
I'm right next door to Middletown.
Yeah, I queried that.
I'm going to shut off my tape record.
There we go.
We're running.
And we're talking to Lynn Nicholas.
Tell me a little bit about how you decided to go after this extraordinary story of the plundered treasures.
in Holland, and my parents completed Germany, and we saw a lot of the bomb cities and everything, and it made such an impression on me, these sort of absolutely flattened city piles of rubble and everything.
And then later on, I started working at the National Gallery of Art, and I began to wonder how possibly any work of art could survive in that kind of scene.
And I sort of majored in history, so I was interested in that period very much.
And then when I was living in Belgium, I read the obituary of someone called Rose Ballon, who was a French curator at the Louvre who stayed there all through the war and was a member of the resistance.
They made a movie about her called The Train.
And I read her obituary, so I thought, well, it'd be interesting to find out what happened.
And then it all kind of came together.
And another thing was that people had been accusing American officers of sort of having a conspiracy to deal with German treasures that were still missing, like the frozen gold.
Which just recently turned up, incidentally, right?
In Russia, of course.
A lot of German curators believed that we had it here in Fort Knox.
And there were some Americans who thought that, too, and were making really very terrible accusations.
So that made me a little bit angry, because I knew a lot of the people.
So I thought I'd just find out the true story.
So 10 years later, there it is.
Fascinating.
There was a case in Texas about a year and a half ago?
Yes, in Quedlinburg.
Right, where in fact an American did take some of that stuff back.
Yes, indeed.
I mean, a lot of American military men did take things, but it was certainly not a government conspiracy on our part or our policy to do that, and that was the difference.
I don't think you can have a war without people taking things.
Yeah, I think what is so eye-opening for me is it's not just the plundering of precious things, because that's gone on historically.
I mean, that's gone on forever.
But the systematic program, and not just of theft, but of purging things that were offensive or that were not within the party line.
It seems that you've gotten into the larger picture as well here.
Yes, well, I mean, that to me was the most shocking thing, because I spent most of those years reading German records, which are at the National Archives.
We have an extraordinary collection there, which was gathered for the Nuremberg trials, basically.
And, I mean, you just can't believe the mentality and their ability to rationalize things that they did.
They, in fact, had a whole structure of laws and rules, which justified...
everything they did to themselves and it was very much based on their racial policies and theories they took things from jews and whatnot but they left in the west anyway the national collections were left intact of course hitler never thought he was going to lose so those would have belonged to him too and he certainly planned to rearrange things particularly take germanic things work by german artists and whatnot back to
Germany, you know, for the German people, and then, you know, rearrange some of the other things.
But what they felt they could just take without any, you know, for themselves, more personally, were the Jewish things, because the Jews were considered stateless.
Did you have any idea of the scope of the pillage when you started?
No, I didn't.
I mean, I think, like most people, people said, oh, the Germans took everything, but I had no idea what that meant, that it was literally in the millions.
But I have to say, when you say in the millions, it's not just pictures, it's statues, coins, armor, books, you know, just furniture, I mean, every conceivable thing that they took.
And again, it was so systematic, too.
It wasn't...
they kept absolutely perfect records in the same way i'm sure you see schindler's list that they made those lists of people and carefully wrote down what they died of or invented things they put down every work of art that they took they said who they'd taken it from what date you know where where it was stored and so those records were very helpful in returning things to people later
Obviously, then, there was a massive archival material for you to sift through.
Yes, indeed.
But tell me about getting a narrative out of this, getting a story out of it, because it's quite an exciting story, too.
Well, the story, what I did sometimes was I would sort of...
expect there was a story there.
And then I would just put the things from all different countries in chronological order.
And then all of a sudden, you would begin to see the relationships of who was doing what at the same time.
I think people have written books about this, but each one was about his own role or his own country.
And what was interesting to me was what was happening simultaneously and the thinking going on.
at different places and how people gradually came to realize what the other ones were doing.
Propaganda was very important for this whole thing.
If the Germans hadn't had such strong propaganda about us, our military probably would never have made as big an effort as they did to recover things, because the Germans were constantly saying that when the Americans came, they were going to take all the art and sell it, you know, and strip Europe bare.
When did you effectively conclude your research on the subject, or did you just keep working on it right up until the time they closed the book?
Well, I think I mostly finished it about two years ago, and then I was just doing the editing.
writing the book.
Did the collapse of the Soviet Union have any ramifications for this?
I mean, in terms of... Well, it confirmed things that I had, you know, I already believed and knew.
I mean, it just, because I was positive that things like the Trojan gold were, had gone to the Soviet Union.
It was the only thing that made any sense.
and then it wasn't confirmed, so that was wonderful.
I'm sure there will be some interesting stories about what happened to them while they were there, but by then it was sort of too late, and it's hard to get into the Russian archives, and I don't read or speak Russian, so I decided to say that they were there and not try to keep it.
At least you were able to document where it is.
I mean, that particular mystery has been solved.
Right.
That's been in the... Those are just press stories that I depended on for that.
But, you know, I'm sure that's true.
What is the disposition of this stuff?
Is it still uncertain?
It's still uncertain.
I think a lot of people think that the Russians are going to make the Germans pay to get it back, and that would surprise me because...
The Germans did tremendous damage there, and I think that wouldn't be unjustified.
And they're going to get some political mileage out of it, too.
The new trend is to give everything back, like the Elgin marbles from England back to the East, and so there's some talk that the Trojan stuff would go back to Turkey.
Well, at which point I should go back to that.
I'm of Greek heritage, you know.
Maybe the Greeks deserve it, too.
I mean, it's not exactly Turkish.
I mean, if you want to keep going back... Right, well, I don't know if we'd start on that.
There's no end to it, so I'm a little against that.
Yeah.
I mean, the Elgin Marbles...
I know, and one coincidence, a couple years ago, I happened to have been going through the British Museum and appreciated them one day, and then the next day I was on the Acropolis, you know.
And the pollution that has just so savaged the marble there, maybe they're better off where they are, you know.
Well, I think they have built now, they're building a new museum over on the Parthenon, on the Acropolis.
Uh-huh.
I don't know how that would work out.
Some people say they don't like the way they're displayed in the British Museum, but I think they look pretty good.
I think it's pretty nice, actually.
It's spectacular.
I mean, they do follow the contours, and you can follow the narrative.
They get very close.
Very nice.
The Egyptians apparently also want Nefertiti, which was one of the things recovered by our forces.
It would go on and on.
Obviously, it's a great story, and you do have a background, a curatorial background, I guess.
You've worked in Washington.
Yeah.
Is this a story that appealed to you as an art story or as a detective story or as a crime story or all of the above?
I think it appealed to me almost more as a morality play and just...
human nature story, but, you know, in the end, it sort of symbolized everything that had gone on at that time.
So, I mean, I think the treasure hunt aspects and everything are fascinating and interesting.
I mean, just the danger in which all of these works of art were put over and over again just, you know, you just can't believe that they survived, but sort of overall things
It may sound very idealistic, but it is an affirmation of our system and that it really turned out for the best it can.
Particularly because our people who helped recover it had to persuade our government to do that.
I mean, our military weren't, you know, they said, we don't care about that.
They put out a tremendous effort to get this done.
Let me just interject my own interest in theft, particularly in terms of book theft.
I recently finished writing a book about bibliomania, of all things.
Oh, what fun.
I'd love to see that.
And it'll be published early next year by Henry Holt.
And in fact, on Tuesday, I'm giving a Forzheimer lecture at the New York Public Library on book theft, on Stephen Blumberg.
You know the fellow who stole the thousands of books from all the...
And I had attended his trial out in Iowa three years ago and interviewed him.
So it is a matter of some considerable interest to me.
And when I saw your book, of course, we have theft on the one hand, which is cultural felony.
But on the other, we also have, I have an old book, which I picked up at a secondhand bookstore, about the destruction of art and architecture, you know, by bombs and by marauding armies and stuff.
So there are two different considerations here, aren't they?
But, you know, war, there's always been looting and destruction in war, but this was so different, I mean, because of the Nazis, the way they planned it and carried it out, and they're theorizing about it.
Mm-hmm.
I do have not just Quedlinburg, but there are a number of other cases of people running off with things, you know, the Hess Jewels.
And the interesting thing was that the Nazis' own greed would occasionally overcome even their rules.
They had all these rules for themselves, and sometimes they couldn't stand it, so then they'd steal something like the Bruges Madonna.
Are there any great masterpieces still unaccounted for that you can... Yes, I think they're mostly German or German-owned.
And there's one, a Raphael from Poland, which never turned up, which is of the caliber of Leonardo's, you know, the lady with the ermine, which was recovered.
There's a Raphael portrait there.
From Berlin, there's quite a lot of stuff.
There were about 400 paintings that were in a flak tower that supposedly burned up.
And then there's the Bellini and a wonderful Chiarelli called Han, which is very famous.
What do you suppose?
They're in private collections somewhere?
I mean, maybe they really did burn up, but a lot of people like to think that they didn't and that somebody took them.
But I mean, are there any suggestions that there were things thought to have been stolen as opposed to being destroyed?
Yeah, well, of course, the Amber Room, I suppose, is the
the main one.
But I think that's probably at the bottom of the Baltic.
I think most of the things that are missing were probably private collections.
And they do, every now and then, one will show up on the market.
In the book, I talk about a drawing, I mean, a pastel, a Degas portrait that
It was owned by Paul Rosenberg, and it was advertised in an art magazine with the provenance blatantly.
And when they called Interpol and got everybody going on this, and by the time they got there, they'd taken it out of the sale and hidden it again.
It's amazing.
I mean, kind of vague provenance.
Provenance is one of the ways I started getting ideas about this book because a lot of pictures, particularly, you'll notice that they give
very detailed provenance up to about 1937, and then it starts again in 1953 or four, and there's this odd blank in the middle.
And those, of course, where they were was when Nazis had them.
Or they sold a lot of things off on the market, and there was a famous collector of Switzerland, Emil Buehler, who quite knowingly bought these things.
And then he was quite complicated.
He finally gave them back, and then he bought them again.
And he said that that was what he was going to do.
But it took a little pressure to make him... Do you think he was that magnanimous, or are you a little... He didn't... The Swiss courts, you know... He was forced.
Yeah, he judged against it, so... But things happen.
You remember the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston had this wonderful Egyptian thing...
Which came from a... I think it wasn't a rap deal that they smuggled out of Italy.
That was bad.
Yeah, I mean, theft is a great concern.
I mean, it's not just... It's not just these... There are, to me, there, at the State Department and the Disformation Agency, and I'm trying to do international laws for these things, but...
I mean, if you've been writing books about book theft, if someone wants something badly enough, nothing is going to stop them.
Nothing is going to stop them.
I mean, I had an FBI agent tell me, he said they could take these books, they could dig a pit 50 feet deep for reinforced concrete in there and not allow anybody in there.
And he said, that might keep this guy out.
He said, but I wouldn't bet on it.
Yeah.
Did you run into any much book theft in your investigations at all?
They took millions of books.
And that's a very interesting thing, too, that Alfred Rosenberg, who was sort of theorist, ideological theorist of the party, was going to start an anti-Semitic think tank called the Hochschule.
And they took a lot of things from synagogues and whatnot, and they were going to put these all in this place so that later generations of Nazis could study what was bad about Judaism, I guess.
Really?
They saved all the Torahs and religious objects and millions of Jewish books from synagogues, both in the eastern countries and the west.
And those were all gathered together in a collecting point after the war at Offenbach.
And rather heroic, there was a man called Seymour Pomerantz who had worked with the National Archive to organize the return.
And they had a deadline.
They had to do it before our occupation troops withdrew.
So they offered terrible pressure.
And they managed to get millions of things back.
But if you're interested in books, that's a very fascinating episode.
You have to forgive me.
I just got my review copy yesterday.
Oh, isn't it exciting?
It's the most exciting.
Is this your first book?
Yes.
No, I mean, the review copy of your book I got yesterday.
And what I'm saying is I haven't had the opportunity to read it through.
Oh, no.
But I kind of wish they'd gotten it to me a little earlier.
No, this is my first book.
In fact, we just sold it three weeks ago.
It's a little early yet to be getting corrected proofs.
I don't go into the book thing terribly deeply because I had to cut a lot out of my book.
Well, that stuff that you just spoke about, is that in the book?
Yes, a little bit.
Okay.
Did they destroy books?
I mean, were they collecting to justify a certain kind of... In the eastern countries, the Slavic countries, they put... I mean, Slavs were put in the same category as Jews.
So they took... They emptied the libraries in Poland and Russia and just helped a lot of the things that were in Polish and Russian because they were going to make...
those people into sort of agricultural slaves and destroy their culture.
It's unbelievable, isn't it?
It's beyond belief.
And then they would allow them just a few little things to have in their libraries.
But the German intellectuals who were interested in Eastern European studies managed to, went through all kinds of machinations to preserve
periodicals and things that they wanted for their, you know, their university libraries that they didn't have, or, you know, research papers and things.
They used those quite freely.
How about rarities?
Did they, and when we talk about libraries, of course, we talk about everything in the stacks, but also there are the special collections, manuscripts.
They kept those, and
I don't know if they sold those in the East or not, or whether they just kept them, and the German universities kind of fought over them.
But certainly in the West, they got rid of their degenerate thing.
They took them out of Germany, but they also sold them to people in the United States, particularly, or dealers who were going to take them there because they knew they could make money on it.
It was much more than an assault on humanity then, wasn't it?
It was an assault on the intellect, on culture.
Yes, I mean, it just, and I thought, well, by the end, I've got to understand this mentality, but I really, I don't.
I mean, there's no justification for it at all.
It's quite an exciting project.
It took you, what, 10 years?
10 years, and I mean, I wasn't working absolutely flat out all 10 years, but the last five, certainly, I
How long had it been under contract?
Let's see.
I think I got the contract in 92.
Oh, really?
So for really most of this, you were doing it basically, as we say, on spec.
Yeah, we'll ignore that.
Okay.
Yes, well, I started out, and since I'd never written a book or anything, I didn't know what it processed for.
Do you want to take that?
No, that's okay.
Okay.
But I was working at the National Gallery with a man called Craig Smythe, who had been an officer in the American Army who ran the collecting point where they brought all the things they found.
And he was later head of the Art Institute at New York University and head of UTATI, a very distinguished man.
And he was writing a lecture on what he had done, and so that really made me
He said, well, stop doing research and start writing.
That's right.
And I did, and I was just very lucky that Knopf was interested.
I love it.
To me, it's a fascinating book.
Of course, I do have a particular interest in the subject, but I'm delighted that Knopf saw the wisdom in publishing it, too.
Well, I certainly had a very fascinating time doing this, and...
The people I've met who were, many of them still alive, I interviewed a lot of them, are just a fantastic group.
Again, when did you start the actual writing?
Sorry?
When did you start the actual writing?
I would say about 90, about.
Really?
And was it intimidating at all?
Was it intimidating at all?
I mean, you must have had a mess of information.
It's hard to get started, but once I did get started, I found it not difficult.
I had a lot of training in writing.
I went to Oxford, and what you do there is you write three or four essays a week, and you never have time to revise them.
So I've gotten quite good at that, and it's like riding a bicycle.
It hadn't gone away.
Sure.
I like the beginning with that sale, too.
That seems appropriate.
Oh, good, yes.
That was fun to do that, because I interviewed Mrs. Feilkenfeld, who's been there for a couple of days.
And she knew, she's a dealer still in Switzerland, a very well-known dealer, her son Walter.
And she remembered exactly who, what, what, and where everything was today.
So that was really remarkable.
Now, you're speaking at the Athenaeum today, is that correct?
Tonight, yes.
Tonight.
Now, this is a lecture?
Yes, at 6 o'clock.
Just out of curiosity now, I mean, do you have slides?
I have lots of slides, yes.
Yes.
And you generally cover, I guess you parallel what you do in the book.
Sort of give an outline of the book and show as many slides as I can.
Yeah.
Because they are remarkable pictures.
And the people seem to love them.
Do you work from a script?
Yes, I'm not, maybe someday I'll be able to get up there and talk without it, but not yet.
This is just a personal question.
I'm giving mine next week, and I have my script here, and I'm trying to decide whether or not I'm going to go up and wing it off cards or read the script.
I just read the script, and I find if I lose my place, it's not good, but maybe in a while I'll be able to give, but I write sort of short paragraphs.
And the slides help a lot because, you know, you can stop.
All the slides are great.
Do you have slides?
I'm sorry?
I have some photographs that I took of this guy, but I'm not going to do slides.
It's a huge room at the New York Public Library, and it's more complicated than it needs to be.
So I'm not going to.
It was a tremendous amount of work getting the slides coordinated with the same thing.
but it's worth it.
I mean, if I had enough stuff to do it with, I'd do it.
Yeah.
I use pictures of the works of art I'm talking about.
Yeah, well, and this is visual, too, where this is books and a guy, you know, a thief.
Well, listen, I've taken up a half an hour of your time, and I certainly appreciate it.
I've enjoyed it.
But tell me, I didn't quite get the spelling of your name because I want to look for your book.